# CASE STUDY OF MIDJOURNEY
## Overview and Origin
Midjourney is a powerful, easy to use, generative AI tool that has forever changed how humans work to create digital art. Utilizing simple text prompts, users are able to partner with Midjourney to create visual art that is unique and evocative. Led by David Holz, Midjourney has a business model and philosophy that has proven successful. 

David Holz, CEO and founder, launched the company in July 2022. An American entrepreneur, Holz studied math and physics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He first founded Leap Motion in 2008, a company that developed technology for registering hand motions and gestures as input. Holz sold Leap Motion in 2019 for $30 million. 

After moving to San Francisco, Holz closely monitored developments in AI and advancements in diffusion models. “After Leap Motion, Holz started wondering about what the future would look like, and what people would need in this uncertain future. He came up with 3 pillars for what he thought would be the most important: reflection, imagination, and coordination.” (1)

Holz’s experience with Leap Motion impacted and shaped his future business model with Midjourney – he knew he did not want to rely on investors which would then either directly or indirectly influence the operation. Midjourney is entirely independent and has received no venture capitalist funding. They initially started with less than 20 employees and no brick-and-mortar headquarters. They have since increased their employee count to a little over 100 as of August 2024. In 2023 alone, Midjourney’s revenue is estimated at $200 million based off user subscriptions. However, financial experts estimate the company’s worth at $10 billion. (2)

## Business Activities
Midjourney offers visual art generated by text prompts quickly, saving time and improving artist efficiency and creativity.
---
> “We like to say we’re trying to expand the imaginative powers of the human species. The goal is to make humans more imaginative, not make imaginative machines, which I think is an important distinction."
> -David Holz (3)

Midjourney has a wide range of intended customers which includes professional artists and designers, film and animation studios, interior designers, architecture firms, video game developers, content creators, marketing firms and businesses, and amateur digital art enthusiasts who simply enjoy the experience of creating digital art. According to an interview with David Holz in The Register in 2022, 70% of their customers are nonprofessional artists. "The majority of people are just having fun," said Holz. "I think that's the biggest thing because it's not actually about art, it's about imagination." (4)

A key element of Midjourney’s successful business model is Discord, a chat and online gathering site. Early models of Midjourney were released through Discord, encouraging collaboration and feedback from its community. Currently users now have the choice to interact directly with the Midjourney site or through Discord. The Midjourney Discord Server currently has over 20 million members.

## Landscape
Although successful and popular, Midjourney has some stiff competition in the field of Generative AI. Especially from competitors like OpenAI, Stability  AI, Adobe Firefly and many others. The race is on to continue training their models so that users get better and better results to their prompts. 

Some companies have found their niche, such as Waifulabs, which focuses on Anime art.

## Results
The business impact of Midjourney is huge and has changed how other businesses get their work done, whether it is a marketing company working on advertising campaign ideas or an interior designer drafting mockups for a customer – various industries are using Midjourney to accomplish work tasks.

Midjourney has achieved remarkable success but has also faced significant challenges. Its impact, along with other AI-driven art tools, has profoundly altered the landscape of art-related industries. Artists now grapple with concerns about job security, compensation, and benefits as they navigate the competitive landscape shaped by AI technology. Moreover, Midjourney and other AI models have faced legal scrutiny, with artists alleging that their work has been used without permission to train these systems. As AI technology continues to advance, existing legislation struggles to keep pace with these rapidly evolving ethical and legal questions.

## RECOMMENDATIONS
Midjourney might eventually venture into direct-to-customer business marketing services. This could eliminate the need for intermediaries by offering comprehensive business development packages, effectively bypassing traditional marketing agencies that often utilize Midjourney for their own clients. New businesses seeking to establish their brand identity could potentially purchase complete packages encompassing logo design, website aesthetics, uniforms, digital advertising, and more. 
Midjourney may also continue to develop niche art models such as their Niji model which caters to Anime enthusiasts. 





## Addendum
1. https://aituts.com/david-holz/#:~:text=At%20the%20end%20of%20high%20school%2C%20he%20started,He%20decided%20to%20learn%20how%20to%203D%20model.

2. https://www.cbinsights.com/research/midjourney-revenue-valuation/#:~:text=The%20growth%20that%20Midjourney%20is%20seeing%20coupled%20with,valuation%20%E2%80%94%20and%20it%20might%20even%20be%20conservative.

3. https://www.theverge.com/2022/8/2/23287173/ai-image-generation-art-midjourney-multiverse-interview-david-holz

4. https://www.theregister.com/2022/08/01/david_holz_midjourney/
   
6. https://nhsjs.com/2023/the-future-of-ai-art-and-its-potential-interactions-with-the-art-industry/

7. https://executive.berkeley.edu/thought-leadership/blog/artificial-imagination-rise-generative-ai

8. https://www.theinformation.com/articles/he-doesnt-need-vc-in-his-life-how-midjourneys-founder-built-an-ai-winner-while-rejecting-venture-capital

9. https://photutorial.com/midjourney-statistics/
